# Project

The project was tested with Python `3.12.2`, `3.11.9` and `3.10.11`.

## Building

To only run the Python code, create a virtual environment (recommended) with `python3 -m venv .venv` and activate it with `source .venv/bin/activate` (or in Windows `.\.venv\Scripts\activate`). Then install the requirements with `pip install -r requirements.txt`. Afterward, you can run the Python module with:

```bash
python -m project --all
```

This will run all the project parts (due to the `--all` flag) and save the plots under the [images directory](report/imgs).

### Configuration

To view all the available options run the command:

```bash
python -m project --help
```

For example, to only run labs 2 and 5, you can use the command:

```bash
python -m project --labs 2 5
```

To build the report you can pass the `--compile_pdf` flag, for example:

```bash
python -m project --compile_pdf --all
```

You can also suppress the output with the `--quiet` flag.

## File Structure

The project is structured as follows:

- [data](data): Contains the Datasets used in the project (training/validation and evaluation).
- [models](models): Contain the `JSON` serialized representation of the best configuration of each model for our application prior $\tilde{\pi} = 0.1$
- [project](project): Contains the Python module with the project code.
  - [labs](project/labs): Contains the code for each part of the project grouped by lab.
  - [funcs](project/funcs): Contains common functions for the project (like `DCF`, `PCA`, `LDA` etc...).
  - [classifiers](project/classifiers): Contain the four classifiers used in the project, the `Binary Gaussian`, `Gaussian Mixture Model`, `Support Vector Machine` and `Logistic Regression` classifiers.
  - [tests](project/tests): Contains some testing code.
  - [figures](project/figures): Contains the code for the plotting and terminal pretty printing.
- [report](report): Contains the `Typst` code for the report.
  - [imgs](report/imgs): Contains the images generated by the project.
  - [chapters](report/chapters): Contains the `Typst` code for each chapter of the project (one for each lab).
- [scores](scores): The scores of each model on the application prior $\tilde{\pi} = 0.1$ will be saved here.
